009 
NOUS41 KWBC 131338
PNSWSH

Service Change Notice 13-13
National Weather Service Headquarters Washington DC
838 AM EST Wed Feb 13 2013

To:      Subscribers:
         -Family of Services
         -NOAA Weather Wire Service
         -Emergency Managers Weather Information Network
         -NOAAPORT
         Other NWS Partners and NWS Employees

From:    Eli Jacks
         Chief, Fire and Public Weather Services Branch

Subject: Transition of Experimental Cold Advisory for Newborn 
         Livestock Web Service to Operational for Participating
         WFOs in CONUS Only, Effective March 19, 2013

Effective Tuesday, March 19, 2013, at 1200 Coordinated Universal 
Time (UTC), the experimental Cold Advisory for Newborn Livestock 
(CANL) Web service will become operational for eight 
participating NWS Weather Forecast Offices (WFOs) in CONUS only.

The CANL service has been experimental since the 2008/2009 winter 
season. This service, which is a graphical depiction of the 
potential for weather related impacts to newborn livestock, is 
provided to help users reduce newborn livestock losses due to 
hazardous weather.

Feedback during the experimental period indicated that this type 
of cold advisory is useful to the livestock industry and is a 
valuable resource. Some comments, however, did question whether 
this particular service should be provided by partners in the 
private sector rather than by the NWS.

As a result, from February 24 through June 22, 2012, the NWS 
solicited feedback from the weather enterprise (including the 
private sector, academia, and other government agencies) on 
interest in meeting this need for the livestock industry:

     http://www.nws.noaa.gov/os/notification/pns12canl.txt

Based on the response, there is no known provider of a comparable 
service and no clear plan for development of such a service. 
Therefore, the NWS is moving forward with providing the CANL 
operationally. Partners and users are advised that this 
supplementary service will not have 24/7 support, but will be 
provided per our best efforts, as has been done since 2008.

Effective March 19, 2013, the operational CANL service will be 
available at the following participating WFO Websites:

WFO Aberdeen, SD
     http://www.crh.noaa.gov/abr/can/forecast.php

WFO Billings, MT
     http://www.wrh.noaa.gov/byz/canl/forecasts.php?wfo=byz

WFO Bismarck, ND
     http://www.crh.noaa.gov/bis/?n=canl

WFO Glasgow, MT
     http://www.wrh.noaa.gov/ggw/canl/canl.html

WFO Great Falls, MT
     http://www.wrh.noaa.gov/tfx/canl/canl.php?wfo=tfx

WFO Pocatello, ID
     http://www.wrh.noaa.gov/pih/canl/

WFO Pendleton, OR
     http://www.wrh.noaa.gov/pdt/canl/canl.php?wfo=pdt

WFO Cheyenne, WY
     http://www.crh.noaa.gov/cys/?n=canl

Detailed information is online in the Product Description 
Document (PDD) at:

     http://products.weather.gov

For more information, please contact:

     Jannie Ferrell
     National Weather Service
     Silver Spring, Maryland 20910
     301-713-1867 x135
     jannie.g.ferrell@noaa.gov

National Service Change Notices are online at:

     http://www.weather.gov/os/notif.htm

$$

